- Hey, did you see the DHH article?
Of course you did.
We said we were gonna get on and talk about this.
I know you've seen it.
I'm in it.
- Yeah, I mean, it's been everywhere.
And a lot of quote tweets, 'cause I guess no one can reply.
So it just becomes like a quote tweet flame test
with every single post.
Which, you know, everyone says it's a part
of their marketing strategy, but.
- Does it work?
Like who ends up being like, this DHH guy, what a jerk.
And then like, hey, base camp looks nice.
- I don't know, is that actually a strategy that works?
I just would love to see one case where that worked.
- Yeah, I don't know what that funnel is.
It doesn't make any sense to me, but.
(upbeat music)
Over the article, it was pretty short, pretty straightforward.
And I think it, I can probably summarize it pretty quickly.
It was just, they looked at their bill for AWS
and what they're paying for, you know, RDS, Elasticsearch.
Paying half a million dollars a year for those services.
And, you know, this is too much just for renting these servers
to run the software.
There's gonna be cheaper for us to host it ourselves.
And I think in general, a lot of people were replying,
saying, oh, like for this many users,
like there's no way your bill should be that high.
I think in general, I try to stay away from stuff like that.
I just don't know.
Like I don't know what their product is.
I know what it does.
Like everything's always more complicated than it seems.
But I think the thing that's more interesting is
that their conclusion was so broad.
They're like, we're paying too much for these services.
Therefore, the cloud has no value period.
We should go to self-hosting
and more of you should consider this as well.
Does that sound right?
- Oh yeah, it sounds right.
And I guess like is the majority,
isn't the majority case people not using the cloud?
Isn't cloud adoption still pretty small?
And like to make the case that they're like the empire
and where the rebels and we're gonna go out and prim
and do dumb stuff, like where the rebels,
I think that's the normal thing.
He talked about like the cloud
and their big like marketing cycles
and how they've really like convinced everybody.
Have they?
I feel like they're just like barely touching the surface
of what people should be doing on the cloud.
- Yeah.
There's a post, again, another post on Hacker News
that it's the same thread every time
about how the cloud is a scam.
And it's that same comment.
It's, yeah, we've had a decade of like people tricking us
into thinking everything's gonna be cheaper.
And then I don't really know what that,
what people are referring to.
But yeah, that is like a sentiment
that I think people generally have.
- Did you wanna defend DHH?
Did you wanna like make the case for why maybe you should
move away from the cloud?
Is that what you were getting at earlier?
- I think there's some legitimate gaps
that because of their service,
they're running directly into.
They are an email service that's indexing text.
There is no great serverless option in AWS for this.
You're effectively just renting servers
from them to run a lot of stuff.
- Classic search is expensive, right?
- Yeah, which is pretty expensive.
You have to like provision clusters,
you have to over provision them so that you can meet growth
and then continue to over provision them.
So that sucks and it's not a good experience.
And I can see why they might say,
yeah, this is not worth it for us.
- It's definitely a gap.
And then also on, they're also using RDS
and there is no, I know AWS has their serverless RDS
which I actually think is pretty good,
but it's not really serverless, right?
Like you're still kind of more or less.
It's just kind of like a good auto scaling RDS
in like a normal RDS instance.
So again, like very low value in terms of what the cloud
can do for them.
They're kind of just roughly managing these servers for you.
So I get their point of view and why they switch
and that like specific decision.
I think I would have still stuck with it
because as some people point out,
500K is like two competent engineers times.
- Yeah.
- So like how much money are you going to get?
- Yeah, I feel like you're going to add
two engineers worth of concerns onto your plate
by doing all that yourselves, I would think.
- Yeah, exactly.
But I think the thing with stuff that they typically publish
is it's like it makes sense in like their narrow band
of what they're working on,
but the conclusion is pretty broad that the cloud is useless
and then that feeds into like some larger debate
that's happening on the cloud being useless
and people are pointing to it saying,
hey, look, look how expensive it is.
It is useless or is it scam, et cetera.
So yeah, I think that's just how this conversation is gone.
And I think that most of the people,
I think Zachary Cantor are the perfect summary of all this.
I don't know if you saw it, he was saying,
it's a self-fulfilling prophecy.
People are skeptical about the cloud.
So they build stuff in a portable cloud-neutral way
that doesn't take advantage of the cloud.
And then they're like, wait, I'm just renting servers
that are really expensive.
Why am I using this in the first place?
So I think that's just a cycle.
- Yeah, it's the lowest common denominator.
Like we don't know that we want to be here.
So we're going to put one foot in the door
and that ends up being really expensive.
- Yeah, but yeah, I don't even know.
Is it that much more expensive than what you're doing,
even with using that lowest common denominator stuff.
But then serverless and event-driven and all of this,
like is that the answer?
We can move to that for their use case.
Can you imagine building hay.com
on event-driven stuff that you build like an SSD?
- Yeah, I think, I actually like the way you phrase it
in your video that you put on YouTube.
I think building stuff in this like neutral way
can work, but it hasn't changed in 15 years
or whatever the timeframe was.
There's all sorts of new interesting ways to build stuff
that is very different and throws out a lot of the old stuff.
So you're kind of starting from scratch.
But yeah, for something like, hey, like,
I see no reason why it can't be mostly serverless.
At least on the compute side.
On the database side, I think for a lot of just like
the business logic stuff like their users
or accounts, things like that.
Dynamo, all those serverless database options.
What we're great, it's really just a search thing.
That's a good killer.
- Yeah, that's missing.
Were you triggered by the renting computers?
Like just that summation of what the cloud is
'cause he makes the point to be like,
this is what the cloud is.
We're afraid to say it, but that's what it is.
- Yeah.
Yeah, I mean, I always have this dual thing where I'm like,
that annoys me, but then I'm also like,
I remember when I used to say that.
(laughing)
- You're a Kubernetes, right?
You're doing all that lowest common denominator stuff.
- Yeah.
I agreed with every single point in this article at one point.
- Oh, who, DHH, this article?
- Yeah.
- That's awesome.
So do you agree, what do you agree with still?
What do you not agree with at all?
- I mean, I think I just, I agree with all of it,
except it's like, but you haven't discovered
this other thing, you know?
It's like within your limited view of the world,
your logic is flawless.
- And could they discover the other thing,
or are they always going to use Rails?
And can you build a Rails app that takes advantage
of all this stuff?
- I actually don't know.
I'm not, I'm not that familiar with Rails.
I don't think so, 'cause I think it's great.
- I've actually, I've done some hosting for clients,
hosting Rails apps on AWS.
And I don't know that you could really take advantage
of like modern, and a bit driven stuff.
You can replace like your Q with SQS instead of sidekick,
and you can replace, I guess like instead of running Redis,
just in another compute like your Rails app,
you can run it in a last cache or whatever, but I don't know.
It's all still, again, that pretty expensive stuff
on AWS, it's not the new thing.
- Yeah, with this type of thing, it's,
I think everyone's looking for the incremental step of,
here's how it used to do things, I'm moving to the cloud,
and here's this incremental way of moving my stuff there,
which is just lifting what I have and putting in the cloud.
And the result is just appointing because these incremental steps
aren't gonna get you to anything game changing.
You kind of have to, realistically,
I don't think moving to the cloud is really an option.
I think you have to wait for new companies
to just start in this cloud native way,
'cause when people move to the cloud,
they just run servers in the cloud,
and they're like, this is expensive, and it sucks.
- Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, so that's something I think about like,
incumbent companies and the disadvantage they have,
if they built their thing a decade ago,
like, I think it's hitting exactly what you're just saying.
Like, I don't know how you've moved that stuff
into this new world, like, can you strangler pattern your way
into, well, I guess Lego.com, so Lego did it.
- Yeah.
- But I mean, did they end up, like,
it just rewrote most everything over time,
but they had like a successful migration
into now, like, best practice it,
like, they're leading the way,
kind of showing how teams can build this way
with multiple teams, and yeah,
but I think of, like, a company, like,
what is the company that makes basecamp?
What is their company called?
- 37 Signals.
- 37 Signals, I think of them as being like,
they're never gonna change in that way,
that article is sort of reflective of that.
- And they have so much experience building things
the way they build it, like, decade,
like, literally creating that pattern, so.
- So it's probably better for them?
Like, they would never move as fast with the new stuff
than they can move with the thing they've been doing
for a decade?
- Yeah, and it's a pretty small company, too.
It's not like you're, so yeah, I get it.
It just makes sense for that.
- Smaller all the time.
The more inflammatory DHH can be on the internet,
the more people leave.
- 36 Signals, 35.
(both laughing)
- I love making fun of these giants,
like, I've ever done anything in my life,
like, I can just sit back here and throw stones.
What do I know?
I can't even find, I'm looking at the article
trying to find the thing that I totally blanked on earlier,
and I literally can't find it.
It's not even that long of an article, I don't know.
And he does talk about, like, it works on two ends
of the spectrum, the one end, and I feel so called out
when he says, "The first end is when your application
"is so simple and low traffic that you really do save
"on complexity by starting with fully managed services."
I feel like that's a sentence I would say,
like, you can start simply with these fully managed services,
and I never make it out of that part.
Like, I never get to the part where it's not just simple
and low traffic.
But then what's he say about the higher end of the spectrum?
Oh, yeah, second is when your load is highly irregular.
Okay, so he's saying, "The cloud doesn't make sense
"if you have predictable anything.
"It only makes sense if you need to be able to burst
"and scale at these crazy bursty rates,
"or if you're tiny and you don't have any traffic."
What do you take from that?
- Yeah, I think the math on that is actually counterintuitive.
I think he's kind of intuiting that,
"Oh, if we have consistent load,
"there's not gonna be a big difference
"going to something that's serverless."
But if you actually do the math, it's pretty crazy.
If you're constantly serving 10 requests a second, for example,
that seems like a lot, like a constant 10 request load.
I should pre-provision stuff.
But if each of those requests only take 100 milliseconds each,
you're actually overpaying by 90%,
'cause in that one second, you're only using
like 100, like 100 milliseconds of that second.
So if you actually do out the math, run the math out,
the savings can be pretty crazy.
You have to multiply this by high availability.
So you don't have to have one copy,
so if you have multiple copies of stuff,
it's kind of surprising sometimes
for what feels like constant loads,
actually mostly empty space.
So yeah, I think, again, just have to do the math out
on your own and see what you get to.
But I've always been shocked when I've moved companies
to serverless stuff.
I knew it was gonna be cheaper,
but it's often like a crazy, ridiculous multiple cheaper.
- Yeah, and it shouldn't be cheaper
when you have less you need to do.
He makes the argument that you would have like cloud,
his promise, you'll need less staff to manage your thing.
And if it's cheaper even without factoring that in,
I think like if it were the same,
it still should be cheaper, total cost, right?
It's a whole total cost of ownership thing.
Like ultimately having fewer concerns,
fewer operational burdens should mean
your team can focus on things that are more important.
But DHH is making the argument that medium-sized companies,
that's not the case.
You can afford to just hire people
who manage infrastructure.
Oh, that's the thing, that's the thing,
the thing that I forgot earlier.
I should stop emphasizing it 'cause I'm gonna forget again.
The thing is he makes the claim
that it's really complicated to have people
that can manage your AWS stuff.
Like that's just as complicated as managing your on-prem stuff.
And I think again, we're talking about the difference
in running lowest common denominator, like VMs and stuff
and using event-driven modern managed services.
Yeah, which again, he's correct
because back when I did all the Kubernetes stuff,
I much preferred managing bare metal Kubernetes
than like AWS's flavor or like Google's flavor.
Google's flavor is actually pretty good, but yeah,
again, makes total sense.
I think the other thing he mentioned was
no company he knows of has scaled down their operations team
as a result of moving to the cloud.
That's totally, yeah.
I mean, that's so substantiated.
Like I'm sure there are plenty of cases.
I'm not gonna substantiate them as well, but.
Well, even if it's not substantiated,
I think this is one of those paradox things
where when something becomes cheaper or easier to use,
you use more of it.
So it's okay that your operations team didn't shrink.
Your engineering team might've even grown even
as a result of moving to the cloud.
But if you break it down to what they're doing,
what they're focusing on, like if you have resources
to spend on hiring and you're not gonna like cut that, right?
'Cause presumably you have good stuff
that people can be doing.
So yeah, teams generally don't shrink.
They might even grow, but it's maybe because
they can more easily add more people
and have them do the useful things they need them to do.
So this like simple way of just looking at it as,
oh, did you fire people or not?
Like I don't.
The company, why not a good company?
If that's what they ended up doing.
- I've heard you in the past say like at companies,
there's never a shortage of things to do.
You're always sacrificing what you could be working on
to work on something.
So. - Yeah.
- Yeah, in that sense, I guess he's,
maybe he's trying to argue that like you have people
that are specifically, they have expertise
with managing AWS stuff and you need those people,
if you don't have the people who are specifically good
at managing infrastructure and like on-prem stuff
or whatever hybrid cloud, I don't even know all that world.
I know nothing about it, but like I guess my view
of the future is people who are good at all of it.
- Yeah, exactly. - And like one role.
It's like the event driven serverless stuff
feels much more, one developer has so much more leverage
than they did 10 years ago, and that's a good thing.
And you hire everyone you can get your hands on
and convince to work at your company.
And you don't think about what they're doing,
you just know they're capable of doing
any of the things across the stack.
I don't know, maybe that's some utopia that doesn't exist,
but that's how I like to think of the future.
- No, I think it is happening, or even myself,
I'm doing more, you know, quote unquote ops work
than I ever have before, not because of anything with me,
it's just become much more accessible and easy for me to do,
so I don't need to outsource that into another person.
So yeah, I agree, it's just ideally you want a company
where everyone's the less specialization
and better in a lot of ways.
So yeah, I think more people just do the ops role
and you have the same number of people,
but it's not this thing where like the developer
finishes their work and they give it to the ops person
to figure out their thing, and there's all this overhead
and communication and stuff that goes wrong in that process.
So yeah, I think to me it's more about making ops work
just become normal application developer work.
And that's kind of the ultimate goal.
- Yeah, I'm trying to find the Simon Woodley
had a tweet and I loved it so much in response to this DH thing.
I love Simon Woodley because you'll be like,
hey, did you see that article from DHH?
And he's like, no, who's that?
(laughing)
He's just so, he's so cool.
And he's like retired from cloud,
but he still knows more than we'll ever like unlearn.
But he basically was laying out like,
what are you even talking about like cloud infrastructure
stuff, like if you're not on serverless, you're dead,
like it's over, you missed the boat and I love it.
I just love that it takes so much 'cause I just hate,
I hate when I see these arguments pop up
and it's like that we're having to defend,
it's better to do less undifferentiated dumb stuff
at your company.
I hate having to defend that.
Like it just seems so obvious to me.
And I guess like there are edge cases,
that's Simon's point is like, there are these edge cases.
The problem is too many people thinking they're the edge case.
And like the majority of people should be building
their thing.
When I think about base camp, like task management
or something, I've never seen base camp in my life
and I hope to never have to because I don't work on teams,
not a slide at like 37 signals.
I'm just saying like, I don't use software to coordinate
with people 'cause I don't coordinate with people.
But if I did, I imagine software where you're just like
managing tasks and like action items and like workflows
and all that nonsense and communication.
I would imagine you can build that on the thing
that allows you to not think about literal servers and OS's
and networking.
And like if you're thinking about that stuff
to build that app, then there is no use case for serverless.
Like if serverless can't solve that,
if event driven applications can't be built
that solve that problem.
Like there's nothing complicated about that problem.
Am I wrong?
Is there something about base camp or that use case
that like demands serious infrastructure investment
and understanding on your team?
- No, I think pretty much in every category now
you can find one company that's doing fully serverless stuff
and not a whole product.
You can probably find a comparable product
that is built with this new architecture.
So yeah, at this point, it's like, you can't argue it doesn't work.
And I actually think this is the way it's always been.
I'm sure there was a time where someone was like,
if you're not literally, you know,
putting your CPU on your motherboard and building your server,
like there's something wrong with that.
Or like, you know, you're getting tricked
to buy these preassembled servers.
- You bought into the marketing.
- Yeah.
- With these machine makers.
- Just life goes on and we build higher and higher abstractions
than we build on top of other things that exist.
Like all the way down to like,
we're not worrying about the electricity getting towards it.
Like it's just, there's just so many infinite layers
over the thousands of years of work.
So yeah, I think it's just kind of dumb to fight these things.
- So is there just this, what is the like,
what is the ending here that makes me feel better?
'Cause I all these stupid arguments crop up
because of these dumb blog posts.
Sorry, I'm so inflammatory.
I think I'm an inflammatory person.
I'm learning.
I think I'm very upset about things and I shouldn't.
'Cause it doesn't affect me.
But like, I get all fired up.
I see this article.
I see the whole debate rage on again.
And I just bothered me so much.
Is there gonna be like an unceremonious ending to all that?
Like, this is not gonna be some big moment
where I get to be like, see, it makes sense.
- You know what, that's what sucks.
There's never that satisfying moment.
- Yeah, it's not going to.
- I feel like I've seen this enough times now
where there was a time where everyone hated static,
not everyone, but there's a lot of debate around static
typing and type safety.
And it was just like, that's dumb or like,
that's just dumb overhead.
And TypeScript came out
and just slowly got incremental adoption every single month.
And now everyone's using it.
And no one is, there was never a moment
where it was like, ha, ha, yeah.
- Yeah, it's just, you go six months
and you realize, and this is real, like honest assessment
for me, I feel like I've gone six months
and not seen somebody argue against TypeScript.
And that's like the first time on Twitter,
I think I've gone six months without seeing that argument.
So it does feel like it just, oh yeah,
people used to argue about that.
It just disappears.
- It just disappears.
- Yeah, we should maybe do like,
someone out there should like archive this stuff of like,
okay, here's the debate.
I should publish the debate it's over, hasn't come up.
And like, you know.
- I feel so good.
- Yeah, I feel so good.
- Remember when people were saying XYZ?
- Yeah, I think of it, I've got kids.
I think of it like, we forget all about like the first year
when we didn't sleep at all.
Like, in the moment it feels like,
this is never gonna end, this is my whole life.
It's so consuming.
And then years later, you're like,
oh yeah, that just stopped.
I mean, I didn't think about the fact that it stopped.
So eventually the DHH article is about dumb stuff.
Well, it's not DHH, this is his first
moving away from the cloud article, I think.
It's not DHH, he's just the symbol right now.
But eventually these arguments will stop cropping up
and will stop having to defend why it's good to focus
on the thing you're trying to build
and not all the other things.
And that's what it is.
I mean, that's what, I don't think of the term cloud
or serverless as being clear in that regard.
I think that's what we're focused on though.
When we talk about a thing,
we're talking about more focus on real problems,
less focus on undifferentiated stuff, right?
- Yeah, I agree.
And to be honest, it is as annoying as it is
not as much energy it takes up.
On some level, I think we all enjoy being part of a group
that's trying to make what we see like the next thing happen
with a bunch of people being like,
no, this old thing is better.
- Oh yeah.
- Again, that's why I can't sign with Vercelle
'cause they have like one.
So I want my looking for the next thing.
That same thing in me that I kind of want
to be the underdog to somebody.
- Yeah, that's why the Star Wars movies are good.
They're the rebellion.
So this was harder to talk about than I thought it'd be.
I thought like when that article came out,
I was like, I gotta get on with DAX
and talk about this 'cause it's so fired up.
And then we got on and it was kind of like,
I don't know, do I have coherent thoughts
about this topic?
Maybe not.
We'll see.
The podcast listeners can tell us.
- Yeah, you know, I kind of feel the same way.
I think it turns out we've,
there's nothing new in this.
I've kind of heard this a lot of times
and we've probably talked about it a million times so.
- I feel dumb even saying like TCO.
I feel like dumb like I'm like being pedantic
or like I'm being, not pedantic.
I'm being like, I'm talking down to the audience
trying to say terms like that
when I feel like they've been beat so hard
that drum has been drummed
and I don't need to explain total cost of ownership
to anybody anymore.
But I guess I do.
I guess there's people that still don't see the world that way
and maybe never will.
I don't know.
Okay, I really don't have an ending for this one.
I didn't have a little, I didn't have a beginning.
I don't have anything for this one.
I'm just fired up.
This has been fun.
I'm really enjoying not doing new guests
and just talking to DAX all the time.
- Yeah, it's good not to just have these conversations
with myself and my head all day.
- Yeah, exactly.
- Yeah, we leave it out here and we can kind of move on.
- So yeah, my listeners may disagree.
They might wish some of my things just stayed in my head,
but it feels good to me.
I'm enjoying it.
I'm enjoying getting it all out of my head.
- Yeah.
- All right, it's been good.
Thanks DAX.
- See ya.
(upbeat music)